BACK-END DESIGN DECISIONS
***
1. SQL Tables: We have four SQL tables: loginlogs, maingoals, subgoals, and users. 
Loginlogs stores the time that the users log into the site. This information is imperative for our clockout page to work as it displays the goals completed within the timeframe of the user logging in to the user exiting the website. It stores the unique id of logging in, user id, and datetime. 
The users table is self explanatory. It stores the username, password, and unique user id for the website to use. 
The subgoals table stores the unique id, content, allotted time, actual time spent on a task, and datetime of completion of each subgoal. We use two columns to store its date/time of completion. Specifically, the “datetime” column has more precision and is used for the clock out page to retrieve information about users’ session time. The “date” column is less precise and stores datetime in the “YY-MM-DD” format; it is used for the history page, and we decided to keep these two columns separate for easier data retrieval. In addition, the “completed” column, whose default value is “FALSE,” stores the status of completion of each subgoal. When a subgoal is completed, we update “completed” to “TRUE.” On our website we only display and enable users to manipulate the subgoals that have not been completed. For the history page, we retrieve and process data of the subgoals that have been completed. Such a design decision allows us to not have to create a separate “history” table. 
The maingoals table is designed similarly to the subgoals table. We would like to note, however, that the time_planned and time_spent columns of the table are dynamically updated based on the summed values of time_spent and time_planned in the subgoals table. For example, whenever a user completes a subgoal (having pressed “Finish Task '' button on the timer page), the time_planned/time_spent of this goal will be added to those of the main goal that this subgoal belongs to. A subgoal is only taken into account after it is completed because time_planned/time_spent of main goals are to be displayed in the “stats & history of completed goals” page. We allow users to pre-allot time only for their subgoals (instead of for both subgoals and main goals) because we want users to focus on breaking down their main tasks into small ones.

2. Timer: The base layout of the timer page is not the same as the other pages and therefore does not extend “layout.html” since we wanted to remove the navigation bar and other links from the timer page. The timer function was coded completely in javascript and the only thing returned from the POST request is the total time spent on the task, which is calculated in javascript and set as the value of a hidden input element. 

FRONT END DESIGN DECISIONS
***
1. Usage of carousel/slideshow to display goals - design of the index page
The goals on the main page are formatted in a slideshow/carousel container( instead of the user being able to view all the goals and subgoals at once) such that the user can focus on one main goal at a time instead of feeling overwhelmed by all they might have to do. To help them quickly know which main goals they have to do though (and also shows the user what order their goals are in on the slideshow), there is the list of main goals names on the right side of the screen which they can view. To quickly delete subgoals and main goals that might not need to be completed anymore, the delete sections are also on the right side of the screen. The reason why the delete section is on the main page (as opposed to maybe the add goals or edit goals sections) is because immediately seeing goals being deleted from one’s list is often more satisfying than seeing more work being added on. Additionally, the main page cannot be too cluttered with information/functions to keep the user interface clean and simple to use. 

2. We decide to dynamically generate a bulleted list on the right side of the main page to display all the current main goals. 

3. Clock-out page: In lieu of a standard “logout” button, we have implemented the clock out page. This page, named after finishing a day of work, allows you to see what tasks you have completed in your current session of work to offer a sense of gratification for your work. The table on the page details the amount of time you spent in total along with a dynamic message depending on the total time that you spent versus the total time that you planned out to do your specific tasks. At the bottom of the clock out page is the logout button which logs the user out of the website and sends them back to the login page.

4. Alerts/warnings: Instead of conveying errors by redirecting the user to a specific error page, the errors/warning/successes are now displayed on the html page itself (or the page where the user may have been redirected to) through the use of “flash” in Flask. This improves the user experience by quickly displaying the message and a corresponding background color for the alert (green for success, yellow for warning). 

5. History: The history page contains a drop-menu for users to select the time span of stats & history that they’d like to view. Currently, there are two options to select from: past week and past month. If, during the selected time period, a user has not completed any task, a line of text will appear on the page to indicate so. If the user has completed one or more tasks, he or she will be redirected to a different page showing both a text summary and a line graph comparing his or her total time planned and total time planned on every single day. Information in the text summary includes users’ consistency (the number of days on which they have completed one or more tasks) and comparisons of their total time planned and total time spent in both real numbers and percentages. The purpose of the line graph is, visualize users’ data, provide a day-to-day comparison, and demonstrate the trend of users’ activities. We believe comparing time spent/time planned is crucial because it not only gives users insights into their productivity but also helps them better gauge their ability to estimate their workload/level of productivity, thereby assisting them in developing metacognitive skills.

6. Music on the timer page: This was one of the last functionalities that we put on our website. It further helps to zone you out from outside distractions by directly inputting the playlists into the website. 

7. Overall/miscellaneous design elements: On the timer page, when the “Finished Task” and “Stop Task” buttons are hovered over, the button background color changes to green while the “Stop Task” button background color changes to red. Green and red are very common colors used in our culture where green is often associated with positive things while red is often associated with negative things (like positive/negative percent changes in the stock market), which may give the user a feeling of accomplishment when they press the “Finished Task” button and the button goes green before they are taken back to the homepage. 

NEXT STEPS/FEATURES WE WOULD LIKE TO IMPLEMENT
***
Adding a dark mode
-Adding a table within history that lets users see something similar to what they would see on the clock out page, but for longer time ranges
-Different graphs and charts that might show things like the time spent vs. time planned for the subgoals of a main goal that the user completed within the past week and/or month
-Add Google Calendar support so that users can import calendar entries as maingoals (planner). 
-Improving our history page to include stats for tasks that did not get completed by users (“failed tasks”)
-A hide/show button for the music playlists on the timer page for those who might be distracted by the playlists
-A way to limit the time spent on your subgoals
-More design features to improve UI/UX
